UX Case Overview - Polaris (from UX Open 2025)

The following links include the app wireframe and the prototype demo 
Figma Wireframe Link: https://www.figma.com/design/zRJm8u6fcuIesg54IpyyTe/UX-Productivity-App?node-id=0-1&t=yWh8T2lQfpoC09WL-1  
Figma Prototype Link: https://www.figma.com/proto/zRJm8u6fcuIesg54IpyyTe/UX-Productivity-App?node-id=8-567&starting-point-node-id=8%3A567&t=KwjAWIAM6kyJeGPF-1  

Project Context:
This team project was a collaboration between designers to develop a social app idea focused on fostering interpersonal connections between early-career students and new grads in tech.

Roles/Responsibilities (Designer & Product Manager):
1. Developed a Figma wireframe and prototype which walks users through the features/process of using Polaris
2. Developed typography and colour palette for app
3. Conducted user research to determine the core problem and solution
4. Ideated features based on current alternatives generated by primary competitors
5. Developed a business plan and the to-market strategy for our initial product

Core Problem:
Early-career students and new graduates looking to pursue a career in tech often struggle to find peers who share their goals and interests. Existing platforms focus on professional status rather than genuine connection, making it difficult to build meaningful, collaborative relationships.

Problem Statement:
How might we help early-career students and new graduates looking to pursue a career in tech, find peers with shared goals and interests to develop meaningful collaboration and growth?

Research Methods:
1. Communication with other students about the disconnect in peer relationships in tech
2. Online research about phone usage to determine the benefits of an app
3. Mentorship from other designers/product managers on how to effectively design/pitch the idea

Final Design Solution:
Our app Polaris bridges the gap in peer-to-peer connection platforms. Matching users based on their skills, experience level, interests, and goals to help them connect, learn, and grow together.

Why An App?
1. Accessibility - 94% of people among Gen Z use a smartphone as their preferred device
2. Comfortability - A mobile app provides ease and simplicity that creates convenience for our target audience
3. Relatability - A texting app boosts familiarity while removing the pressure of formal conversation

Competitive Landscape:
1. LinkedIn - The target audience is mainly for professional connections, often with a loss of genuine connection due to the nature of cold-messaging and rejection
2. ADP List - While this platform promotes professional mentorship, it has a poor UX/UI making it difficult for users to navigate the interface
3. Boba Talks - Another informal mentorship platform, the main drawback is the short-term nature of the connections, affecting the ability for students/grads to forge long-lasting interpersonal relationships

Product Differentiation:
1. Matching Algorithm - Whoever you want to learn from, we find you a match. No searching, no guesswork.
2. Community & Culture - Backed by our user research, we have a strong community of peers in tech. We want to connect you with your peers in tech, not someone who was in your shoes, but someone who’s there right now. 

To-Market Strategy:
Beachhead Market - early-career students & new graduates (ages 18-25)
UVP - Our app Polaris, helps foster interpersonal peer connections through an integrated matching system that allows our target customer segment grow in the tech space. This app outperforms our competitors in its accessibility, comfortability, and relatability to our beachhead market while providing valuable and genuine connections to support professional experiences in the tech industry.
Pre-Launch Strategy: Begin marketing in online tech communities, university tech clubs and events, and social media platforms. Building a network of existing students in tech who are already familiar with the barriers and challenges of communicating personal struggles of breaking into tech with professionals.
Launch Strategy: Rollout the app to our specific customer segment (students and new graduates in Vancouver, BC) with potential monetization and premium plans that can be added as our customer segment expands and brand value is established

Business Plan:
Pricing - Free plan involves 25 re-matches per month, the premium plan is subscription-based with unlimited re-matches
Next Steps - Piloting in Vancouver, with steps to launch across Canada & globally, funding by stakeholders and local initiatives such as DigiBC
Value Creation - We help early-career students and new grads find meaningful connections within the tech space, giving people a space to grow, find others to join their personal projects, and work towards building professional experiences

Reflection:
Working on this project allowed me to grow as a designer, as I learned to collaborate with people who shared different conceptual ideas that differed from my design ethos and process. I also had the opportunity to take on a role as a product manager and understand the business aspects of our app, allowing me to build value within the app itself as well as create a product that had a genuine problem and was specific to a niche customer segment. 

Building the wireframe for this app gave me insight into the functional considerations that should be made for users, (i.e. often the most touched areas of a phone screen are the bottom-middle and center areas) and aesthetics such as colours/fonts, which can have an impact on usability and general audience appeal. Prototyping and pitching were two main skills that I wanted to improve on during this competition, and I was able to learn how to navigate aspects of it within my design as well as during the development of our product's to-market strategy and business plan.

Learning to ask questions about why we were using specific user flows, types of designs, and the benefits of an app vs. a website were important in this design and allowed me to better communicate the solution inspired by our target customer segment's problem. It also allowed me to develop a more comprehensive understanding of how different flows interact with each other, and the benefits of conducting user research to navigate the pain points in the user journey to determine how our solution can not only outperform our competitors but meet the needs of our early adopters.
